20/04/26

The Groovy Programming completed till page no 90.
The data model book completed till page no 80.

WareHouse FulFillment LifeCycle  (BPL)

    Order Brokering and allocation.
        Orders are created in oms/shopify/any sales channel/hotwax. status - created
        Approved orders are automatically pushed into the brokering for fulfillment and routing. (Approved)
        Inventory for the order is reserved.
        
    Sychronization to WMS/ERP
        A scheduled Job in hotwax generates a feed of orders allocated to warehouse.
        sync to wms/erp - the data of orders are pushed to wms/erp. In net suite order status are pending fulfillment

    Warehouse operations 
        prepare shipment - picker will be assgined and it will lead to the picking of order.
        item fulfillment record is generated.
        picker will pack and ship it. status will be updated to fulfilled
        Rejections - orders can be rejected by any reason - natural mishapp / Inventory missmatch / size issue / worn Product / cant find 
        The rejected order are pushed to rejected queue to get to brokering queue again for fulfillment. (By OMS)

    Shipping and Tracking
        Order dispatched - WRS/ERP marks order as shipped.
        Fulfillment sync to hotwax com 
        status update - reserved to shipped
        items shipped = hotwax's status to completed

    Final sync to erp/ecom


Inventory LifeCycle - (Real Time Inventory Management)

    The Inventory count of a product is regularly updated due to various factors
        - customer purchase (online / in store / bopis / sandsales)
        - new inventory     
        - transtions across systems
        

    Online ATP - The number of quantity of products which are reserved for online sales

    ATP - Avaiable to Promise - represents the physical inventory of products are deducting the 
        safety stocks / reversed stocks / threshold - the avaiable stocks for online sales

    Online ATP = QOH - (Excluded Facilities + Safety Stock + Threshold + Orders in Brokering Queue)

    Excluded Facilities - The facilities which are not accepting online orders due to xyz reasons.

    Safety Stock - The perticular quantity of stocks which is reserved for pos sales.

    Threshold - A Limit which is set by whole company or brand to prevent overselling and related issues.

    Orders in Brokering Queue - The number of stocks in BQ are subtracted because they are already promised to customers. hence it comes under sellable inventory.


How it Works - The syncing of WMS - POS - ERP  = unified pool of inventory
    When a product’s QOH and ATP is updated in HotWax Commerce, its Online ATP is 
    recomputed to ensure sellable inventory for eCommerce is calculated on the latest stock levels.
    After syncing the hotwax com calculates the inventory
    

    Inventory Transactions in WMS -
        ERP systems often serve as the central hub for inventory management 
        - vendor and new inventory purchase orders 
        - orders are created in netsuite

    Inventory Receipts in Warehouses -
        A scheduled job sync and imports the new purchase orders made in ERP and from ERP.

    Inventory Receipts in Stores - 
        Store faces some challenges while using ERP systems like NetSuite for Inventory Management 
        as it can be complex for store associates.
        We have (HOTWAX) - Inventory Receving App - Cycle Count App
    
    Purchase Order 
        Auto increase QOH & ATP: When the inventory physically arrives at the store, 
        store associates receive items using the Inventory Receiving App.
        When a product’s QOH and ATP is updated in HotWax Commerce, 
        its Online ATP is recomputed to ensure sellable inventory for eCommerce is calculated on the latest stock levels.

    Transfer Order 
        when new transfer orders are created in erp. A scheduled job in hotwax com
