11/05/26
Shopify Order LifeCycle


	Order Status -
		1. Open - created / placed / proccesing / changes can be made state.
		2. Archived - Automatically or Manually archived.
		3. Cancelled - Order is Cancelled / refund may be pending hence processing may happen.
		
	Payment Status - 
		1.Pending - COD , Credit card payment , payment later case.
		2.Authorized - orders are allowed. customer can checkout. mannual payment captured.
		3.Due - Payment has not been completed and the date has passed. payment overdue case.
		4.Expired - Payment is not captured before the date was set to get the amount. some credit card payments failed or 
				time has crossed and payment cant be processed further.
		5.Paid - Payment captured maunally or automatically.
		6.Refunded - The refund has been made to the customer against a return case.
		7.Partially Refunded - Amount returned to the customer was less than the total order amount.
		8.Partially Paid - You manually Captured the payment order and specified less than order value of payment amount.
		9.Voided - An unpaid order was manually cancelled.
		10.UnPaid - Authorized / partially paid / pending / expired	
		
	Fulfillment Status - 
		1.Unfulfilled - When order is placed it is in unfulfilled state. it can be changed to fulfilled manually if required.
		2.In Progress - This can be used when order is preparing state or in process. can be picking or packing.
		3.On Hold - Inventory can be reserved but cant be fulfilled at the moment. can be done by retailer.
		4.Scheduled - Prepaid subscription orders have scheduled status until the fulfillment is reached.
		5.Partially Fulfilled - when a part of order is fulfilled 
		6.Fulfilled - when all items of order is fulfilled
	
	Return Status -
		1.Return Requested - A request is raised which can be approve or decline
		2.Return in progress - The Request Approved we can further process the return order. 
		3.Returned - The return is completed.
		4.Inspection Completed- The items in return were inspected. we can refund the amount.
