14/05/26

Job Scheduling -
    It is a process of managing and executing the tasks or jobs in a perticular manner or time.
    Making the right things happen at right time and making the flow efficient.

    Example - In production application - if it crashes
            we have scheduled jobs which will try to reboot the app if didnt work after 3 times the service inside the job
            will release the old stable version for the moment and notify all devs about it.

       1.data backup and recovery
       2.Inventory Update in retail
       3.Payroll processing

       Types -
            Event Driven - A user hitting a perticular task and a job is started.
                            real world - when a user place an order a dedicated job will run and do the things.
            Time-Based - This is simple time based at some fixed time or intervals jobs are triggered.
                            real world ex - At midnight 3:00 AM all orders are brokered.
            Dependency-Based - Many jobs are dependent on each other. say A job has B job within it.
                            real world ex - After Brokering many things are need to managed - fulfillment , inventory , facility.
            Manual

            Automatic


CRON Expressions -

    A CRON expression is a string with 5 space-separated fields (sometimes 6 or 7 depending on the system) that define a recurring schedule.

    ┌──────── minute (0 - 59)
    │ ┌────── hour (0 - 23)
    │ │ ┌──── day of month (1 - 31)
    │ │ │ ┌── month (1 - 12 or JAN-DEC)
    │ │ │ │ ┌─ day of week (0 - 6 or SUN-SAT)
    │ │ │ │ │
    * * * * *

    0 0 * * *	 Every day at midnight
    */5 * * * *	 Every 5 minutes
    0 9 * * 1-5	 9 AM on weekdays
    30 14 1 * *	 2:30 PM on the 1st of each month
    @daily	     Shortcut for 0 0 * * *


Quartz Scheduler -

        Open Source rich library for job and task scheduling many jobs doest matter any complex or any number.
        This is made of java based applications. stand-alone applications too.

        unlike cron expression this have 7 fields.

        ┌───────────── second (0 - 59)
        │ ┌─────────── minute (0 - 59)
        │ │ ┌───────── hour (0 - 23)
        │ │ │ ┌─────── day of month (1 - 31)
        │ │ │ │ ┌───── month (1 - 12 or JAN-DEC)
        │ │ │ │ │ ┌─── day of week (1 - 7 or SUN-SAT)
        │ │ │ │ │ │ ┌─ year (optional)
        │ │ │ │ │ │ │
        * * * * * * *


        why it is better - seconds level precision


Semaphores -
        Semaphores are the synchronization tools used in operating systems to manage and access shared resources
        in multiprocess or multi-threaded systems. It is a integer variable that controls process executions using
        atomic operations like wait() and signal().
        It helps preventing race conditions and ensure proper coordination between processes.


        Wait()
               // takes resource
               s = s - 1;
               if s < 0:
                   wait

        signal()
               // take resource
               s = s - 1;
               if s <- 0;
                    // wake up process


        State 1: Both processes are in their non-critical sections, and S = 1.
        State 2: P1 enters the critical section. It performs wait(S), so S = 0. P2 continues in the non-critical section.
        State 3: If P2 now wants to enter, it cannot proceed since S = 0. It must wait until S > 0.
        State 4: When P1 finishes, it performs signal(S), making S = 1. Now P2 can enter its critical section and again sets S = 0.


    Features of Semaphores -

                Mutual Exclusion: Semaphore ensures that only one process accesses a shared resource at a time.
                Process Synchronization: Semaphore coordinates the execution order of multiple processes.
                Resource Management: Limits access to a finite set of resources, like printers, devices, etc.
                Reader-Writer Problem: Allows multiple readers but restricts the writers until no reader is present.
                Avoiding Deadlocks: Prevents deadlocks by controlling the order of allocation of resources.

    Types of Semaphores -
                1. Counting Semaphore

                    A counting semaphore can have values ranging from 0 to any positive integer. It is used when multiple
                    instances of a resource are available and need to be managed.

                2. Binary Semaphore

                    A binary semaphore has only two possible values: 0 and 1. It is mainly used for mutual exclusion, ensuring
                    that only one process enters the critical section at a time.


                Struct Semaphore {
                    int count;
                    Queue q;
                }


CallBack Urls -
        These are the core machanism for implementing asynchronous integration patterns.
        lightweight publish-subscribe (pub-sub) model.
        They enable seamless communication between services without requiring the caller to wait.
        Callback URLs are endpoints specified by a client when making a request to a service.
        The service, after completing the requested process, sends a notification or data to the provided URL.

        For instance:

            Payment Gateways: Notify the originating system (that initiated the payment request) once the transaction
            is successfully completed.
            Bulk SMS Sending: Inform the client about the status of sending SMS messages to a list of recipients.
            These callbacks or notifications can include details such as delivery statistics and completion reports.



File Transfer Protocol -
    It is a application layer protocol for file transfer between client and server using TCP/IP network.
    It provides standard way to share files across systems.

    supports text , binary , image
    supports downloading , uploading , and remote file management
    uses TCP to ensure reliable connection


    Types of Connection in FTP
        1. Control Connection

            This connection is used to exchange commands and responses between the client and server.

        2. Data Connection

            This is used to transfer the actual file content and directory listings.

SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
                             SSH Protocol – Secure Remote Login and File Transfer. (ssh client <- -> ssh server)


                             Encrypted Data Sharing.
                             public key and private key concepts.
                             It provides authentication to username and password.